**Monte Carlo Simulation.** An analysis technique where a computer model is iterated many times, with the input values chosen at random for each iteration driven by the input data, including probability distributions and probabilistic branches. Outputs are generated to represent the range of possible outcomes for the project.

**Multicriteria Decision Analysis.** This technique utilizes a decision matrix to provide a systematic analytical approach for establishing criteria, such as risk levels, uncertainty, and valuation, to evaluate and rank many ideas.

**Network.** See *project schedule network diagram*.

**Network Logic.** All activity dependencies in a project schedule network diagram.

**Network Path.** A sequence of activities connected by logical relationships in a project schedule network diagram.

**Networking.** Establishing connections and relationships with other people from the same or other organizations.

**Node.** A point at which dependency lines connect on a schedule network diagram.

**Nominal Group Technique.** A technique that enhances brainstorming with a voting process used to rank the most useful ideas for further brainstorming or for prioritization.

**Objective.** Something toward which work is to be directed, a strategic position to be attained, a purpose to be achieved, a result to be obtained, a product to be produced, or a service to be performed.

**Opportunity.** A risk that would have a positive effect on one or more project objectives.

**Organizational Breakdown Structure (OBS).** A hierarchical representation of the project organization, which illustrates the relationship between project activities and the organizational units that will perform those activities.

**Organizational Learning.** A discipline concerned with the way individuals, groups, and organizations develop knowledge.

**Organizational Process Assets.** Plans, processes, documents, and knowledge repositories that are specific to and used by the performing organization.

**Output.** A product, result, or service generated by a process. May be an input to a successor process.

**Overall Project Risk.** The effect of uncertainty on the project as a whole, arising from all sources of uncertainty including individual risks, representing the exposure of stakeholders to the implications of variations in project outcome, both positive and negative.

**Parametric Estimating.** An estimating technique in which an algorithm is used to calculate cost or duration based on historical data and project parameters.

**Path Convergence.** A relationship in which a schedule activity has more than one predecessor.

**Path Divergence.** A relationship in which a schedule activity has more than one successor.

**Percent Complete.** An estimate expressed as a percent of the amount of work that has been completed on an activity or a work breakdown structure component.

334

Process Groups: A Practice Guide

PMI Member benefit licensed to: Segun Fatoki - 4510107. Not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.