the applicable controlling processes for analysis. Work performance data analysis provides information about the completion status of deliverables and other relevant details about project performance. The work performance data will also be used as an input to the Monitoring and Controlling Process Group, and can be used as feedback into lessons learned to improve the performance of future work packages.

### 4.3.1 DIRECT AND MANAGE PROJECT WORK: INPUTS

#### 4.3.1.1 PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLAN

Described in Section 4.2.3.1. Any component of the project management plan may be an input to this process.

#### 4.3.1.2 PROJECT DOCUMENTS

Project documents that can be considered as inputs for this process include but are not limited to:

- ◆ Change log. Described in Section 4.6.3.3. The change log contains the status of all change requests.
- ◆ Lessons learned register. Described in Section 4.4.3.1. Lessons learned are used to improve the performance of the project and to avoid repeating mistakes. The register helps identify where to set rules or guidelines so the team's actions are aligned.
- ◆ Milestone list. Described in Section 6.2.3.3. The milestone list shows the scheduled dates for specific milestones.
- ◆ Project communications. Described in Section 10.2.3.1. Project communications include performance reports, deliverable status, and other information generated by the project.
- ◆ Project schedule. Described in Section 6.5.3.2. The schedule includes at least the list of work activities, their durations, resources, and planned start and finish dates.
- ◆ Requirements traceability matrix. Described in Section 5.2.3.2. The requirements traceability matrix links product requirements to the deliverables that satisfy them and helps to focus on the final outcomes.
- ◆ Risk register. Described in Section 11.2.3.1. The risk register provides information on threats and opportunities that may impact project execution.
- ◆ Risk report. Described in Section 11.2.3.2. The risk report provides information on sources of overall project risk along with summary information on identified individual project risks.

115