that the contractors do not have control over, such as changing corporate policies in the buying organization, changing regulatory requirements, and other risks from outside the project. Contracts may specify that risk management be performed as part of the contract.

- ◆ Changing contracting processes. There has been a significant growth in megaprojects in the past several years, particularly in the areas of infrastructure development and engineering projects. Multibillion-dollar projects are now common. A large proportion of these involve international contracts with multiple contractors from many countries and are inherently more risky than projects using only local contractors. Increasingly, the contractor works closely with the client in the procurement process to take advantage of discounts through quantity purchases or other special considerations. For these projects, the use of internationally recognized standard contract forms is increasing in order to reduce problems and claims during execution.
- ◆ Logistics and supply chain management. Because so many large engineering, construction infrastructure projects are done through multiple international contractors, the management of the flow of materials becomes critical to successful completion. For long-lead items, both the manufacture of the items and their transportation to the project site become schedule-drivers. In the IT field, a long-lead item may require ordering 2 to 3 months in advance. In complex construction projects, long-lead items may require ordering 1 to 2 years in advance or longer. For these projects, long-lead items may be procured in advance of other procurement contracts to meet the planned project completion date. It is possible to begin contracting for these long-lead materials, supplies, or equipment before the final design of the end product itself is completed based on the known requirements identified in the top-level design. The management of the supply chain is an area of increasing emphasis by the contractor's project team. Not only are primary sources of supplies identified early in the project, but secondary, back-up sources are also generally identified. Many countries around the world require international contractors to purchase certain minimum percentages of material and supplies from local vendors.
- ◆ Technology and stakeholder relations. Publicly funded projects are under increasing scrutiny. A trend in infrastructure and commercial construction projects is the use of technology including web cameras (webcams) to improve stakeholder communications and relations. During construction, one or more webcams are installed on the site, with periodic updates to a publicly available website. The progress on the project can be viewed on the Internet by all stakeholders. Video data can also be stored, allowing analysis if a claim arises. Some projects have discovered that the use of webcams minimizes disputes relating to the construction work on site, as the webcam has recorded the

451