**Strategies for overall project risk.** Risk responses should be planned and implemented not only for individual project risks but also to address overall project risk. The same risk response strategies that are used to deal with individual project risks can also be applied to overall project risk:

- ▶ **Avoid.** Where the level of overall project risk is significantly negative and outside the agreed-upon risk thresholds for the project, an avoid strategy may be adopted. This involves taking focused action to reduce the negative effect of uncertainty on the project as a whole and bring the project back within the thresholds. An example of avoidance at the overall project level would include removal of high-risk elements of scope from the project. Where it is not possible to bring the project back within the thresholds, the project may be canceled. This represents the most extreme degree of risk avoidance and it should be used only if the overall level of threat is, and will remain, unacceptable.
- ▶ **Exploit.** Where the level of overall project risk is significantly positive and outside the agreed-upon risk thresholds for the project, an exploit strategy may be adopted. This involves taking focused action to capture the positive effect of uncertainty on the project as a whole. An example of exploiting at the overall project level would include addition of high-benefit elements of scope to the project to add value or benefits to stakeholders. Alternatively the risk thresholds for the project may be modified with the agreement of key stakeholders in order to embrace the opportunity.
- ▶ **Transfer/share.** If the level of overall project risk is high but the organization is unable to address it effectively, a third party may be involved to manage the risk on behalf of the organization. Where overall project risk is negative, a transfer strategy is required, which may involve payment of a risk premium. In the case of high positive overall project risk, ownership may be shared in order to reap the associated benefits. Examples of both transfer and share strategies for overall project risk include but are not limited to setting up a collaborative business structure in which the buyer and the seller share the overall project risk, launching a joint venture or special-purpose company, or subcontracting key elements of the project.
- ▶ **Mitigate/enhance.** These strategies involve changing the level of overall project risk to optimize the chances of achieving the project's objectives. The mitigation strategy is used where overall project risk is negative, and enhancement applies when it is positive. Examples of mitigation or enhancement strategies include replanning the project, changing the scope and boundaries of the project, modifying project priority, changing resource allocations, adjusting delivery times, etc.

Tools and Techniques

PMI Member benefit licensed to: Segun Fatoki - 4510107. Not for distribution, sale, or reproduction.

303