estimates. In some cases, cost variances can be so severe that a revised cost baseline is needed to provide a realistic basis for performance measurement.

### 6.5.3.7 PROJECT DOCUMENTS UPDATES

Project documents that may be updated as a result of carrying out this process include but are not limited to:

- ◆ Activity attributes. Described in Section 6.2.3.2. Activity attributes are updated to include any revised resource requirements and any other revisions generated by the Develop Schedule process.
- ◆ Assumption log. Described in Section 4.1.3.2. The assumption log may be updated with changes to assumptions in duration, resource utilization, sequencing, or other information that is revealed as a result of developing the schedule model.
- ◆ Duration estimates. Described in Section 6.4.3.1. The number and availability of resources, along with the activity dependencies can result in a change to the duration estimates. If the resource-leveling analysis changes the resource requirements, then the duration estimates will likely need to be updated as well.
- ◆ Lessons learned register. Described in Section 4.4.3.1. The lessons learned register can be updated with techniques that were efficient and effective in developing the schedule model.
- ◆ Resource requirements. Described in Section 9.2.3.1. Resource leveling can have a significant effect on preliminary estimates for the types and quantities of resources required. If the resource-leveling analysis changes the resource requirements, then the resource requirements are updated.
- ◆ Risk register. Described in Section 11.2.3.1. The risk register may need to be updated to reflect opportunities or threats perceived through scheduling assumptions.

### 6.6 CONTROL SCHEDULE

Control Schedule is the process of monitoring the status of the project to update the project schedule and managing changes to the schedule baseline. The key benefit of this process is that the schedule baseline is maintained throughout the project. This process is performed throughout the project. The inputs, tools and techniques, and outputs of this process are depicted in Figure 6-22. Figure 6-23 depicts the data flow diagram of the process.

235