The risk management plan is a component of the project management plan that describes how risk management activities will be structured and performed. The risk management plan may include some or all of the following elements:

- ◆ Risk strategy. Describes the general approach to managing risk on this project.
- ◆ Methodology. Defines the specific approaches, tools, and data sources that will be used to perform risk management on the project.
- ◆ Roles and responsibilities. Defines the lead, support, and risk management team members for each type of activity described in the risk management plan, and clarifies their responsibilities.
- ◆ Funding. Identifies the funds needed to perform activities related to Project Risk Management. Establishes protocols for the application of contingency and management reserves.
- ◆ Timing. Defines when and how often the Project Risk Management processes will be performed throughout the project life cycle, and establishes risk management activities for inclusion into the project schedule.
- ◆ Risk categories. Provide a means for grouping individual project risks. A common way to structure risk categories is with a risk breakdown structure (RBS), which is a hierarchical representation of potential sources of risk (see example in Figure 11-4). An RBS helps the project team consider the full range of sources from which individual project risks may arise. This can be useful when identifying risks or when categorizing identified risks. The organization may have a generic RBS to be used for all projects, or there may be several RBS frameworks for different types of projects, or the project may develop a tailored RBS. Where an RBS is not used, an organization may use a custom risk categorization framework, which may take the form of a simple list of categories or a structure based on project objectives.

397