A global community of practitioners from different industries and organizations, in different roles, and working on different types of projects have developed and/or provided feedback on drafts of the standard as it has evolved for this edition. In addition, the *PMBOK® Guide – Seventh Edition* coleaders and staff reviewed other bodies of knowledge and works focused on project management to identify principle concepts embedded in those texts. These combined efforts showed strong alignment and supported the validation that the guiding principles in this edition of the standard apply across the spectrum of project management.

To date, the global project management community has embraced the shift of this standard toward a set of principle statements. The principle statements capture and summarize generally accepted objectives for the practice of project management and its core functions. The principle statements provide broad parameters within which project teams can operate and offer many ways to remain aligned with the intent of the principles.

Using these principle statements, PMI can reflect effective management of projects across the full value delivery landscape: predictive to adaptive and everything in between. This principles-based approach is also consistent with the evolution of *The Standard for Program Management* (Third and Fourth Editions) and *The Standard for Portfolio Management – Fourth Edition*. *The Standard for Risk Management in Portfolios, Programs, and Projects* and *Benefits Realization Management: A Practice Guide* represent new standard products intentionally developed with a principles-based focus by global teams of subject matter experts.

Nothing in this edition of *The Standard for Project Management* or *A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge* negates alignment with the process-based approach of past editions. Many organizations and practitioners continue to find that approach useful for guiding their project management capabilities, aligning their methodologies, and evaluating their project management capabilities. That approach remains relevant in the context of this new edition.

Another significant change with this edition of the *PMBOK® Guide* is a systems view of project management. This shift begins with a systems view of value delivery as part of *The Standard for Project Management* and continues with the presentation of the *PMBOK® Guide* content. A systems focus for value delivery changes the perspective from one of governing portfolios, programs, and projects to focusing on the value chain that links those and other business capabilities to advancing organizational strategy, value, and business objectives. In the context of project management, *The Standard for Project Management* and the *PMBOK® Guide* emphasize that projects do not simply produce outputs, but more importantly, enable those outputs to drive outcomes that ultimately deliver value to the organization and its stakeholders.

xi