- ◆ Contract types. All legal contractual relationships generally fall into one of two broad families: either fixed-price or cost-reimbursable. Also, there is a third hybrid type commonly used called the time and materials contract. The more popular contract types in use are discussed below as discrete types, but, in practice, it is not unusual to combine one or more types into a single procurement.
  - ■ *Fixed-price contracts.* This category of contracts involves setting a fixed total price for a defined product, service, or result to be provided. These contracts should be used when the requirements are well defined and no significant changes to the scope are expected. Types of fixed-price contract include:
    - ○ *Firm fixed price (FFP).* The most commonly used contract type is the FFP. It is favored by most buying organizations because the price for goods is set at the outset and not subject to change unless the scope of work changes.
    - ○ *Fixed price incentive fee (FPIF).* This fixed-price arrangement gives the buyer and seller some flexibility in that it allows for deviation from performance, with financial incentives tied to achieving agreed-upon metrics. Typically, such financial incentives are related to cost, schedule, or technical performance of the seller. Under FPIF contracts, a price ceiling is set, and all costs above the price ceiling are the responsibility of the seller.
    - ○ *Fixed price with economic price adjustments (FPEPA).* This type is used whenever the seller's performance period spans a considerable period of years, or if the payments are made in a different currency. It is a fixed-price contract, but with a special provision allowing for predefined final adjustments to the contract price due to changed conditions, such as inflation changes or cost increases (or decreases) for specific commodities.
- ◆ Cost-reimbursable contracts. This category of contract involves payments (cost reimbursements) to the seller for all legitimate actual costs incurred for completed work, plus a fee representing seller profit. This type should be used if the scope of work is expected to change significantly during the execution of the contract. Variations can include:
  - ■ *Cost plus fixed fee (CPFF).* The seller is reimbursed for all allowable costs for performing the contract work and receives a fixed-fee payment calculated as a percentage of the initial estimated project costs. Fee amounts do not change unless the project scope changes.
  - ■ *Cost plus incentive fee (CPIF).* The seller is reimbursed for all allowable costs for performing the contract work and receives a predetermined incentive fee

458