decomposed into a set of requirements and work to be performed, sometimes referred to as a product backlog. At the beginning of an iteration, the team will work to determine how many of the highest-priority items on the backlog list can be delivered within the next iteration. Three processes (Collect Requirements, Define Scope, and Create WBS) are repeated for each iteration. On the contrary, in a predictive project, these processes are performed toward the beginning of the project and updated as necessary, using the integrated change control process.

In an adaptive or agile life cycle, the sponsor and customer representatives should be continuously engaged with the project to provide feedback on deliverables as they are created and to ensure that the product backlog reflects their current needs. Two processes (Validate Scope and Control Scope) are repeated for each iteration. On the contrary, in a predictive project, Validate Scope occurs with each deliverable or phase review and Control Scope is an ongoing process.

In predictive projects, the scope baseline for the project is the approved version of the project scope statement, work breakdown structure (WBS), and its associated WBS dictionary. A baseline can be changed only through formal change control procedures and is used as a basis for comparison while performing Validate Scope and Control Scope processes as well as other controlling processes. Projects with adaptive life cycles use backlogs (including product requirements and user stories) to reflect their current needs.

Completion of the project scope is measured against the project management plan, while completion of the product scope is measured against the product requirements. The term “requirement” is defined as a condition or capability that is required to be present in a product, service, or result to satisfy an agreement or other formally imposed specification.

Validate Scope is the process of formalizing acceptance of the completed project deliverables. The verified deliverables obtained from the Control Quality process are an input to the Validate Scope process. One of the outputs of Validate Scope is accepted deliverables that are formally signed off and approved by the authorized stakeholder. Therefore, the stakeholder needs to get involved early on during planning (sometimes initiating as well) and to provide inputs about quality of deliverables so that Control Quality can assess the performance and recommend necessary changes.

## TRENDS AND EMERGING PRACTICES IN PROJECT SCOPE MANAGEMENT

Requirements have always been a concern in project management and have continued to gain more attention in the profession. As the global environment becomes more complex, organizations are starting to recognize how to use business analysis to their competitive advantage by defining, managing, and controlling requirements activities. Activities of business analysis may start before a project is initiated and a project manager is assigned. According to *Requirements Management: A Practice Guide* [14], the requirements management process starts with a needs assessment, which may begin in portfolio planning, in program planning, or within a discrete project.

152